Dangerous. You get a wound on each failure, but base payment doubles.
Deadly. You die on critical failure, but base payment quadruples.
Material. Payment comes in items relevant to this job, GM and Player discuss options.
Mutual. Payment comes in service relevant to this job, GM and Player discuss options.
Difficult. -2 Penalty to all Skill rolls, but base payment doubles.
Strict. No payment on any failure, but base payment doubles.
Complex. You roll extra random skill, but base payment doubles.
Reputational. You gain permanent -2 to Charisma in community related to this job on failure, but get +2 on success.
Hard. You get exhaustion point, but base payment doubles.
Long. This job consumes twice the time, but base payment doubles.
Stable. If you pick this job, you are guaranteed to work here next day.
Demanding. You need to spend an hour in interview composed of required skill rolls. You're hired only if all succeed.
Unspecified. One of the required skills is a mystery to you (chosen at random), but base payment doubles.
Fishy. There's only 50% of chances you will get paid, but base payment doubles.
Insolvent. Each day (including current one) there's only 25% of chances you will get paid, but the base payment doubles.
Unpredictable. This job's terms are a mystery to you. You will know them once you're hired.
nequipped. You need to have a certain item with you, which will be damaged on failure or destroyed on critical. Base payment doubles.
Developing. Payment comes in improving job-related skill by one level.
Illegal. On failure, you're caught by local law enforcers. Base payment doubles.
Masculine. If you're a woman, you will get -2 to Charisma among local women, but +2 among local men.
Feminine. If you're a man, you will get -2 to Charisma among local men, but +2 among local women.
Antiquated. If you're rather young, you will get -2 to Charisma among local youngsters, but +2 among local old people.
Youth. If you're rather old, you will get -2 to Charisma among local old people, but +2 among local youngsters.
Imprecise. Due to poor wording, you need to make some investigation to find this job. Each hour of search you have 25% chances for it. Base payment doubles.
Inactual. After you spend one hour to find the place, there's 50% chances it's expired. Base payment doubles.
Specialized. -4 to skill rolls, but the base payment thrices.
Impossible. -6 to skill rolls, but the base payment quadruples.
Exhausting. You will get two exhaustion levels, but payment thrices.
Double. Bring a friend, this job requires two people. And both of you are paid.
Beastly. Your animal will perform all the skill rolls, but base payment doubles.
Unpopular. You will get -2 to Charisma among local people, but base payment doubles.
Charitable. Total failure brings nothing. After at least one success, you're paid in +2 to Charisma among local people. 
Dirty. After the job you'll be whole dirty and smelly. Odour gives you -2 to Charisma and vanishes after one day. Base payment doubles.
Hot. Now or never. If any character looks away, the offer will disappear. Base payment doubles.
Supervised. You get as much as good you are. Nothing for critical failure, 50% for any failure, 100% for partial success, 150% for success, +50% for each raise.
Binding. After each day of work, there's 50% chances you will have to work one day more. You get the payment for each day at the end of your job.
Forgiving. Final payment is halved, but employer will never be mad at you and you will get your payment even after a critical failure.
Friendly. Final payment is halved, but you end up with a new friend.
Easy. Final payment is halved, but +2 to skill rolls.
Injust. 50% chances that your final payment decreases by half, 50% chances it increases by half.
Eternal. It's a life-long job.
Entertaining. Random player character will suffer from this job's results, but your base payment is doubled.
Shady. It seems to be a cover for some other job. There is no return, you will be forced to do it. At least base payment is doubled.
Short. Final payment is halved, but job takes half the usual time required.
Expensive. Gear used in this job is very expensive. On critical failure, you need to pay an extra equivalent of your daily salary. Base payment doubles.
Prestigious. With this job, you can become very famous! Each raise grants you +1 to global Charisma modifier, but critical failure grants -2.