Cackle Fever. (Inhaled, DC 13). After 1d4 hours, gain one level of exhaustion till disease is cured. Each time creature enters combat, takes damage, experiences fear - it needs to make Constitution check or take 1d10 psychic damage and become incapacitated with mad laughter for 1 minute. On each turn, creature may end this state with successful save. Any humanoid which starts turn within 10 feet of laughtering creature must succeed on DC 10 Constitution save or also become infected.
Mad Monkey Fever. (Inhaled, DC 13). After 1d6 hours, causes long-term madness (roll from table) and lasts 1d10*10 hours. After full course, the creature needs to roll Constitution save again or suffer another long-term madness (roll again on the table) that lasts until the disease ends.
Sewer Plague. (Contact, DC 11). After 1d4 days, gain one level of exhaustion. Creature regains only half of the normal number of hit points from spending Hit Dice and no hit points from finishing a long rest. At end of each long rest, creature must roll Constitution save again, or get one level of exhaustion. On successful save, creature's exhaustion decreases by one. If it reduces exhaustion to zero, creature recovers from disease.
Shivering Sickness. (Injury, DC 11). Creature with natural armor has advantage on initial saving throw. After 2d6 hours, creature regains only half the normal number of hit points from spending Hit Dice and no points from long rest. Creature has disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls. At the end of a long rest, creature repeats saving throw, recovering from disease on success.
Sight Rot. (Ingested, DC 15). After 1 day, creature takes -1 penalty to attack rolls and ability checks that rely on sight. At end of each long rest penalty worsens by 1. When it reaches -5, the victim is blinded until its sight is restored by magic. Sight rot can be cured by oinment made from Eyebright flower, which prevents disease from worsening after a given long rest. Three days of such healing cures the disease entirely.
Throat Leeches. (Ingested, DC 12). After 1d6 hours, creature gains 1 level of exhaustion until disease is cured. At the end of each long rest, creature must repeat saving throw. On failed save, exhaustion increases by 1. On successful save, creature's exhaustion decreases by 1. If it reduces exhaustion to zero, the creature recovers from disease.
Blinding Sickness (3.5e, Ingested, DC 16). After 1d3 days, Strength falls by 1d4 each day of failed Constitution save. Each time the victim takes 2 or more attribute damage from the disease, he must make another Constitution save or be permanently blinded.
Cackle Fever (3.5e, Inhaled, DC 16). After 1 day, Wisdom falls by 1d6 each day of failed Constitution save. Symptoms include high fever, disorientation, and frequent bouts of hideous laughter. Also known as “the shrieks.” 
Cascade Flu (3.5e, Injury, DC 13). After 1 day, every time afflicted character manifests a power, she must make a DC 16 Concentration check. On failure, two additional random powers are activated. On next rounds, three additional powers manifest, and so on, until all power points are drained. There's 50% chances that given power will target another creature in range.
Cerebral Parasites (3.5e, Contact, DC 15). After 1d4 days, power points are limited by 1d8 on each day. Each psionic power can be used only once per day.
Demon Fever (3.5e, Injury, DC 18). After 1 day, Constitution falls by 1d6 each day of failed Constitution save. When damaged, character must succeed on another saving throw or 1 point of damage is permanent drain instead.
Devil Chills (3.5e, Injury, DC 14). After 1d4 days, Strength falls by 1d4 each day of failed Constitution save. It takes three, not two, successful saves in a row to recover from devil chills. 
Filth Fever (3.5e, Injury, DC 12). After 1d3 days, Constitution and Dexterity fall by 1d3 each day of failed Constitution save.
Mindfire (3.5e, Inhaled, DC 12). After 1 day, Intelligence and Dexterity falls by 1d4 each day it fails Constitution save. Feels like your brain is burning. Causes stupor. 
Mummy Rot (3.5e, Contact, DC 20). After 1 day, Constitution falls by 1d6 each day of failed Constitution save. Successful saves do not allow the character to recover. Only magical healing can save the character.
Red Ache (3.5e, Injury, DC 15). After 1d3 days, Strength falls by 1d6 each day of failed Constitution save. Skin turns red, bloated, and warm to the touch. 
Shakes (3.5e, Contact, DC 13). After 1 day, Dexterity falls by 1d8 each day of failed Constitution save. Causes involuntary twitches, tremors, and fits. 
Slimy Doom (3.5e, Contact, DC 14). After 1 day, Constitution falls by 1d4 each day of failed Constitution save. When damaged, character must succeed on another saving throw or 1 point of damage is permanent drain instead.
Athrakitis (PF, Inhaled, DC 20). After 1d6 day, Strength falls by 1d8 each day of failed Constitution save. Infective particles can survive centuries if not purged by temperature or chemicals.
Basidirond Spores (PF, Inhaled, DC 16). Each round, creature must roll saving throw or take 1d2 Constitution damage. Effect ends after 6 rounds or on success.
Blightburn Sickness (PF, Contact, DC 22). After 1 day, Constitution and Charisma fall by 1d6 each day of failed Constitution save. Contact is automatic when a creature comes within a 60-foot radius, and can be blocked only by lead sheeting, 1 foot of stone, or a force effect. There's no cure.
Blister Phage (PF, Contact, DC 20). After 1 day, Constitution and Charisma fall by 1d4 each day of failed Constitution save. Disease causes a painful and hideous outbreak of facial tumors and a sickening deterioration of the skin across the entire body, and also works on the minds of some, slowly driving them insane.
Bluespit (PF, Inhaled, DC 14). After 1 hour, deals 1d6 nonlethal damage and exhaustion level each day of failed Constitution save. Damage and exhaustion can't be cured while the disease remains. If victim becomes unconscious, begins to suffocate. The name is derived from the blue-tinged sputum coughed up by victims.
Bog Rot (PF, Contact, DC 16). After 1 day, Strength, Dexterity, Constitution or Charisma falls by 1d4 each day of failed Constitution save. Creatures afflicted with bog rot do not heal naturally and gain only one-half benefit from magical healing until the disease is cured. Unlike normal diseases, bog rot continues until the victim reaches Constitution 0 (and dies). There's no cure other than magic.
Bonecrusher Fever (PF, Injury, DC 12). After 1 week, Dexterity falls by 1d4 each day of failed Constitution save. The illness then leads to severe headaches, high fevers, and a distinctive rash of bright red dots across the lower limbs and chest.
Boot Soup (PF, Contact, DC 16). After 1 day, Speed reduced by 5 feet and Dexterity falls by 1d3 each day of failed Constitution save. Creatures reduced to zero Speed have feet permanently paralyzed. Apart from curing it with standard, two consecutive Constitution successes, it can be cured through skinning or burning the affected area, inflicting 1d8 damage.
Brainworms (PF, Contact, DC 14). After 1 day, Wisdom and Intelligence fall by 1d3 each day of failed Constitution save. If damaged in combat, target must make a second Constitution save or become confused till end of the encounter (each turn, roll 1d4: 1 - Act normally, 2 - Do nothing but babble incoherently, 3 - Deal 1d8 points of damage + Str modifier to self with item in hand, 4 - Attack nearest creature other than your familiar). The infestation is typically evidenced by a dulling of the senses and irrational rage toward other creatures.
Bubonic Plague (PF, Inhaled, DC 17). After one day, Constitution falls by 1d4 and target gains exhaustion point each day of failed Constitution save. Each time creature takes at least 2 points of Constititution damage, it also takes 1 point of Charisma damage. Symptoms include fever, headaches, nausea, fatigue, and swelling of the lymph nodes, and eventually bleeding beneath the skin.
Cholera (PF, Injury, DC 13). After 1d3 days, Constitution falls by 1d2 and creature gains exhaustion level each day of failed Constitution save.
Coward's Mark (PF, Inhaled, DC 13). After 1 week, Dexterity and Wisdom fall by 1d2 each day of failed Constitution save. After two eonsecutive failures, victim develops secondary effect, or secondary effect worsens. On secondary stage, victim becomes shaken, getting -2 penalty to attack, skill and ability rolls whenever other creature is within 30 feet. Victim must succeed on Wisdom saving throw or become Frightened each time any creature approaches within 30 feet. With third stage, disease's DC increases by 2 and failure causes creature to drop held items and run away from source of fear. Three consecutive saves cure the disease.
Disentery (PF, Contact, DC 16). After 1d3 days, 1d6 nonlethal damage and exhaustion level each day of failed Constitution save. Affected creature can perform Action, or Move Action during its turn. Characterized by explosive and sometimes bloody diarrhea, leading to dehydration and occasionally death.
Enteric Fever (PF, Ingested, DC 15). After 3 days, Strength and Constitution falls by 1d4 each day of failed Constitution save. Affected creature is Poisoned. Symptoms include high fever, profuse sweating, nausea, and later - severe headaches, exhaustion, and abdominal pain, as rose-colored spots appear on the chest and abdominal areas. At that point, the victim is prone to dehydration and falls into bouts of delirium and nervous shakes.
Final Rest (PF, Inaled, DC 16). After 1 week, Charisma falls by 1d2 each day of failed Constitution save. While any Charisma damage remains, the victim cannot gain morale bonuses, receives a +2 bonus on saves against mind-affecting effects, and must attempt a saving throw even against harmless mind-affecting effects. Final rest saps emotion until the victim simply gives up living.
Firegut (PF, Inhaled, DC 17). After 1 day, affected creature can perform Action, or Move Action during its turn. Three consecutive saves cure disease. Characterized by occasional vomiting of burning bile. It is extremely tenacious.
Green Haze (PF, Contact, DC 13). After 1 day, -4 on Perception checks, target is permanently blinded if fails 3 saves. This mold tends to begin growing in the folds of the eyelids. Over the course of a day, it spreads to cover the eyelids and begins to cover the eyeball.
Greenscale (PF, Injury, DC 15). After 1d6 days, Charisma and Dexterity fall by 1d2 each week of failed Constititution save. Additionally, each day target must make extra Constitution saving throw or lose 1 point of Charisma for good. This disgusting disease causes patches of skin to harden and crack, weeping greenish pus and covering the body with putrid, scale-like patterns.
Leprosy (PF, Inhaled, DC 12 negates, DC 20 to avoid effects). After 2d4 weeks, Charisma falls by 1d2. Results in skin lesions, extreme nasal congestion, and wounds that do not heal.
Jungle Fever (PF, Injury, DC 18). After 1d3 days, Strength and Constitution fall by 1d3 and target gets exhaustion level each day of failed Constitution save. Leads to fever, vomiting, shivering, and convulsions.
Pulsing Puffs (PF, Injury, DC 16). After 1 day, Dexterity falls by 1d4. Blue-white spores quickly growing into phosphorescent, domed mounds that pulse along with the bearer’s heartbeat.
Rabies (PF, Injury, DC 14). After 2d6 weeks, Constitution falls by 1 and Wisdom falls by 1d3 each day of failed Constitution save (minimum reduction to 1 Wisdom).
Rapture Pox (PF, Injury, DC 14). After 1d3 days, Wisdom and Charisma falls by 1d4 each day of failed Constitution save. As long as a creature suffers ability damage, it is poisoned.
Red Drip (PF, Contact, DC 18). After 1 day, Dexterity falls by 1d4 and Charisma falls by 1d2. Can be cured by amputation of infected hand. Inflammation of the cuticles and hands. If left untreated, the cuticles begin to bleed and the hands swell until the nails blacken and fall off entirely. From there, the hands become a mess of oozing sores, festering and rotting. The infection then spreads up the arms and into the chest, killing the victim.
Scarlet Leprosy (PF, Injury, DC 20). After 1d3 days, Constitution and Charisma fall by 1d6 each day of failed Constitution save. Whenever a creature suffers Constitution damage, 1 point is permanently drain.
Seasickness (PF, Contact, DC 5 in calm weather, DC 15 in rough weather). After one day, affected creature becomes Poisoned.
Shattermind (PF, Contact, DC 17). Instead of Constitution, make a Wisdom save. After 1 day, Wisdom falls by 1d4 each day of failed Wisdom save. On any day the victim fails her saving throw, she suffers the effects of a type of long-term madness (roll from table). A given variety of shattermind spreads the same form of madness to all of its victims.
Sleeping Sickness (PF, Injury, DC 14). After 1d2 days, Wisdom falls by 1d4 and creature gains exhaustion point. Causes fever, headache, joint pain, swelling of glands in the back and neck, and most notably fatigue. The disease gradually infects the brain, causing confusion, reduced coordination, difficulty keeping track of time, and insomnia. Apart from normal, two consecutive saves, there's 30% to cure the disease by applying arsenic poison.
Tetanus (PF, Injury, DC 14). After 1d6 days, Dexterity falls by 1d4 and 50% chances to stiff jaw muscles preventing speech each day of failed Constitution save.
Tuberculosis (PF, Inhaled, DC 18). After 1d4 days, Strength and Constitution fall by 1d4 each day of failed Constitution save. Symptoms include chest pain and a productive, prolonged, bloody cough. If left untreated, the disease quickly progresses, leading to high fever, chills, night sweats, appetite loss, pallor, and fatigue.
Typhoid Fever (PF, Injury, DC 15). After 1d4 days, Strength falls by 1d6 each day of failed Constitution save.
Zombie Rot (PF, Contact, DC 10 + 1/2 of zombie's Hit Dice + zombie's Charisma modifier). After 1d4 days, Constitution permanently falls by 1d2 each day of failed Constitution save. Anyone who dies while infected rises as random zombie in 2d6 hours. After curing, Constitution starts regenerating at normal ratio of 1 point per long rest.
